All right, welcome back.
So let's take a look at Exercise 04.
Again, what we want to do is we want every
single time we have a mouse down event,
we want to know exactly the position of
that mouse when we clicked the, the box.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to be adding an action
to the mouse down transition.
So when we're in the idle state,
and mouse down happens,
we want an action to happen as well.
So we could say target dragging and
I will add an action.
So actions is plural because we
could take one or more actions.
In this case, we're only taking one.
So context events.
First, let's console the log,
what exactly is in these?
Just to make sure that we have some sort
of action and I'm going to log Action.
Cool, so when we click down,
we see that we have an action.
The context is undefined because
we're not exactly using it yet.
But we do have that mouse event.
And again,
we're using native mouse events.
So this is really great that we could
see the exact events that was passed in.
Now it looks like this mouse
event does have what we want.
We have client x and client y,
we wanna display that here somehow.
So what we could do is we could
say albox.dataset.points.
And we're going to be using
a template literal over here and
just putting that in parentheses.
So we're gonna have events.clientsX,
and events.clientsY?
So now when we click, we see that we do
get that mouse position right over there.
Now again, this is good for prototyping or
quickly spinning up your machines,
but we wants to make this
in a more flexible format.
So let's move all of this logic
to this set points action.
And so we're doing the exact same
thing and instead of this action,
we're going to be
referencing the set points.
Again, this could contain one or
more actions.
So it doesn't make a difference
if this is an array or not.
So let's make sure that
it does the same thing.
Indeed it does, so that's really cool.
Now one other thing too,
since we could customize this action,
this is especially good for testing.
If we want to say that this action
side effect is not really going to
help us out much when
we're unit testing or
integration testing this machine,
we could say, actions.
And then, we could specify
that same setPoint action,
remember it has to have the same name.
And then,
we could override this any way we want.
So we could say console.log,
overrided setPoint and
then you'll see that it
no longer shows up here.
But we have this
overridden however you say
it setpoints over here in the console.
And so when you're testing, it's a good
idea to have these named to actions so
that you could replace them with test
implementations of your actions instead.
So again, by removing that,
now we have the exact
same behavior that we want,
which is pretty nice.
And so if we were to copy this machine,
so we need to copy the set
points of function as well and
we put it in our visualizer.
Remember, it's not create machine,
it's machine.
And we're going to make this a string for
now because we don't have an outbox
on this page and we update it.
We could see that we have this set
point action defined over here.
So we could visually verify that our
logic is working exactly the same way
that we expect it to.
So the logic is no longer in your head,
it's right there on the screen.
And now we have managed side effects.
So someone mentioned going points free,
and
what that means is you're not
really taking any arguments.
It's a pretty interesting way of
programming popular in the functional
programming world.
But instead of this since we're sending
the exact same events over here,
we could even say service.send.
It's a bit less clear what it's doing,
but it is more concise arguably.
And so that should give us
the exact same behavior which it does,
great.
In the chat it was asked are there any
real world use cases for entry and
exit actions?
And this is actually an important points,
because entry and exit actions are actions
where they're taken every single time you
enter or exit the state respectively.
But transition actions, are more explicit,
because you could say that
whenever you take a transition,
you're going to do that action.
And it doesn't depend on the state,
it just depends on
the transition that's taken.
So one thing you could do is start
off with transition actions.
Once you start noticing that a lot of
actions are being repeated in many
transitions that either go to the same
state or exit the same state, that
is a sign that you could probably refactor
that to be entry and exit actions instead.
And so, if you want to dive more into this
topic, look up the difference between more
machines and mealy machines because
those describe the difference between
transition actions and
entry and exit actions.